hi everyone Lucy here and today we're
talking more about a TOEFL listening
test and in this particular lesson we're
looking at lecture skilled 12
non-standard format so in this lesson
first I'm going to describe the tasks
next we're going to talk about the
method and finally it's time for you to
do some practice so the purpose of this
lesson is to understand exactly how to
complete the listening non-standard form
at question type ok now this type of
question is a little bit different so
it's important that you pay careful
attention to the task description okay
so let's take a look so in this
particular task you want to match
information in a table by ticking a box
and with this particular non-standard
format there are actually two different
possible types and I'll show you an
example of each so our first type looks
like this you can see we have some
statements and you want to tick a box
indicating yes or no for each of these
statements now our next type instead has
a list of statements and rather than yes
or no you want to tick if they are
correct for that particular column in
this case the columns are arranged by
location so now for both of these task
types the method is the same okay
remember that the first step as always
is to listen to the audio and take notes
okay remember that note-taking is
incredibly important right you want to
try to get as much information as
possible without wasting your time
writing full sentences instead you want
to keep your notes short and sweet okay
use whatever system is best for you if
you like to use abbreviations and
acronyms that's great but use your
scratch paper and pen to take the notes
okay now if you don't already get that
pen and paper ready because it's time
for us to listen to the audio and take
notes okay are you ready
here is the lecture Saturn has been
known since prehistoric times in ancient
times it was the most distant of the
five known planets in the solar system
excluding earth and thus a major
character in various mythologies
Babylonian astronomers systematically
observed and recorded the movements of
Saturn in ancient Roman mythology the
god Saturn is from which the planet
takes its name was the god of
Agriculture the Romans considered
saternus the equivalent of the Greek god
Cronus the Greeks had made the outermost
planet sacred to Cronus and the Romans
followed suit the Greek scientist
Ptolemy based his calculations of
Saturn's orbit on observations he made
while it was in opposition in Hindu
astrology there are nine astronomical
objects Saturn is known as Shani and
that judges everyone based on the good
and bad deeds performed in life
ancient Chinese and Japanese culture
designated the planet Saturn as the
Earth's star this was based on five
elements which were traditionally used
to classify natural elements Galileo
first saw Saturn's rings in 1610 it was
Christian Higgins later discovered
Saturn's moon Titan giovanni domenico
cassini later discovered four other
moons in 1675 Cassini discovered the gap
now known as the Cassini division no
further discoveries of significance were
made until 1789 when William Herschel
discovered to further moons
Nemeth and Enceladus the irregularly
shaped satellite Hyperion which has a
resonance with Titan was discovered in
1848 by a British team
okay so hopefully you were able to get
some good notes from that lecture let's
take a look at our sample notes so you
can see here our notes are quite short
but we still have a lot of detail in
them and you can see things like the
equal sign we're using a symbol to help
simplify our notes and make our
note-taking faster now our next step is
to read the question and answer options
so like always remember that you're
going to have to listen before you get
to look at the question and that is why
the note-taking skills are so important
so let's take a look at our question so
the question says in the lecture the
professor explains historical theories
about Saturn indicate whether each of
the following statements supports the
theories click the correct box for each
choice okay so now our next step is to
look at our notes and tick the boxes
accordingly and you can see that this
particular question is like task type
one yes/no so let's look at our question
and answer choices again and compare
them with our notes okay now remember in
this particular case we're not trying to
eliminate any obviously wrong answers
for each of these we have to decide if
it's yes or no so let's go through so a
is yes B no C yes D no and E yes okay so
hopefully you did all right there and
let's take a look and do some practice
on our own okay
so again if you don't already make sure
you have a pen and paper ready and let's
take a look at our own practice now
remember that the first step as always
is to listen to the audio and take notes
are you ready here is your practice
lecture in Jungian psychology archetypes
are highly developed elements of the
collective unconscious being unconscious
the existence of archetypes can only be
deduced indirectly by examining behavior
images art myths religions or dreams
Jung described three category
of archetypes archetypal events
archetypal figures and archetypal motifs
first archetypal events they include
birth death separation from parents
initiation marriage and the union of
opposites archetypal figures include the
great mother father child devil God wise
old man wise old woman the trickster and
the hero finally archetypal motifs are
the apocalypse the deluge and the
creation although the number of
archetypes is limitless there are a few
particularly notable ones recurring
archetypal images the chief among them
being the shadow the wise old man the
child the mother and her counterpart the
maiden and lastly the anima and man and
the animus in women okay now next it's
time for us to take a look at the
question okay and remember to bring up
your notes and pay careful attention to
which box you think you need to check
okay so let's take a look and here is
our question
okay so now that we've taken a look at
our question it's time for us to decide
on what our answers are so are you ready
here are our answers okay so how did you
go with the practice on your own
hopefully you did well and I hope you're
pleased with the result thank you so
much for watching and remember that if
you have any questions about the TOEFL
test or any other English test please
take a look at our website and e2
language com
thank you so much for watching and see
you next time bye